Hey everybody. Hi Michael. Welcome to another week. Well, let's, I'm excited.
It's another week that starts with Monday. Can you believe it?
It's just another, it's one of those, yeah, also one of those days that ends in Y.
So let's, let's get going. Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and
headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 471 recorded March 2nd, 2026.
It's just still sounds weird. And I am Brian Okken. I am Michael Kennedy.
And this episode is sponsored by all of, all of you guys and us. So everybody that helps,
helps send some money our way through taking a course at Talk Python Training or a pytest course
at pythontest.com or reads one of our books or also Patreon supporters. Thank you, Patreon supporters.
If you would like to send out, we get a lot of, we do a lot of research ourselves, but we also get a
lot of tips from other people. So if you'd like to have feedback, if you disagree with something or
want to add to the conversation, go ahead and connect with us on Bluesky, Mastodon. I think
that's it. Or just at pythonbytes.fm. There's a contact form there. You can also subscribe to the,
actually one of the best ways is you can go over to pythonbytes.fm and subscribe to the email list.
And when, when you get an email, then you'll know our email address and then you can just
send us stuff through there. That gets to us. Also, if you'd like to join the show live,
that's fun. Go on, head over to pythonbytes.fm/live and you can find out how to get,
watch the show live. With that, let's kick it off with the first topic, Michael.
Let's do it. So this first topic is an article that I wrote, more of a design pattern that I would
like to advocate for. Now, you see, Brian, I have this friend, his name is Claude. He's really good
at writing code, but he gets super distracted. Claude code. So I've been thinking a lot about what does
agentic programming and people leveraging these tools mean for like design patterns and architecture.
I'm a big fan of thinking about architecture and so on. So I wrote this up. It got super popular
in, on Reddit. And I thought I would share it here as well. You know, popular in the sense that
like lots of comments, lots of upvotes, but also a lot of like mean comments because it's Reddit. So
that's how it goes, but good comments too. So first of all, I want to put this out as a
disclaimer. As you think about this, don't try to adjudicate whether or not people should be using AI
for coding. Don't try to adjudicate whether AI coding should exist, whether it is bad or good.
It exists. People are using it. If that's true, what should we do as an industry? How should we consider
how should we move forward? How should we think about this? Right? Are there things that would make
that better or worse? Right? You yourself can decide you're not using, but as an industry,
I think it's pretty clear that it's being highly adopted. So that's kind of the goal that I had
when I wrote this article. Yeah. And so the title is raw plus DC. So as in raw database queries,
and DC is in data classes. And then subtitle is the ORM pattern of 2026 question mark. And I'm putting
that out there is because I think this is a pattern that is much, much more aligned to way AI coding works.
So why do people like ORMs? And technically I for this, I use what's called an ODM and object
document mapper because I was using the example I extracted it from was written against MongoDB,
but whatever, like it's immaterial, whether it's Mongo or Postgres, okay, or SQLite.
Developers love ORMs and ODMs because they provide type safety, especially with like document databases,
they constrain what can and cannot go into the database, right? You got to match the class and
then the class goes in the database. You don't just stick dictionaries in there, which is otherwise the case.
They prevent SQL injection or Mongo query injection because they, they always, by the way they work,
use parameterized queries. They're a nice abstraction. Also for developers, they provide really good IDE
auto completion. So I have a function, I give it a type or even the type is just discovered through
type inference that it returns this class. So when I get one back and I say thing from the database dot,
it gives me a list of all the stuff I can do in the database. All these things are awesome, right?
Yeah. But here's the thing.
I ran to this literally this morning working on this project that I've not yet released,
but we'll talk about pretty soon.
These, these AI tools are trained so much more on raw queries than they are on any particular ORM.
So for example, I was using Beanie on this project. Beanie is downloaded 1.4 million times a month,
which actually is really impressive. So Beanie is the ODM for talking to MongoDB.
The underlying library that lets you talk in the native query syntax is downloaded 74 million times
per month. That's 53 times more. And there's other libraries for talking directly to Mongo as well.
Right? So there's like 50, 75 times more bits of code out there that are actually just talking directly
to the database than using this particular ORM. Okay. And that's true for SQL as well. Like
for just sticking with Mongo, right? PyMongo is the Python version of this, but there's also people doing
the native query syntax in node, deno, bun, PHP, .net, whatever, right? Like all these other languages.
So if you actually do that sort of cross product, it's probably a thousand times more that AIs see
raw database queries than they see any particular ORM, even if that ORM is popular, right? Because it's
for a technology and then it's sliced down into who uses that ORM rather than across all programming.
The other thing is, I don't know. What about yeah. So these, these ORMs go in unmaintained,
right? I mean, Django ORM probably won't go unmaintained, but they, they come and they go and sort of
their popularity. So for example, Beanie, it had only like three releases in the entire year of 2025.
It's last release was four months ago to close some minor issue. And it's got a bunch, like almost
a hundred open issues, even though it's downloaded over a million times a month, it's kind of gone
unmaintained. And before that I was using Mongo engine, which was way more unmaintained than Beanie.
Like Beanie was the exciting new one, right? And so what do I have to do if this changes? If I decide
that it's too unmaintained, I have to completely rewrite it in a different ORM. But if it was written in
a regular, just straight query syntax, that doesn't change, right? That's, that's been identical
for SQL since the databases came out identical sent for Mongo since Mongo came out. I mean,
they add to it a little bit, right? Like if they add a feature or something, but generally it's going
to be the same. So I don't have to worry about it. These things going on the same. Go ahead.
I want to interject a little bit. You threw out Django. I was going to comment that Django might be
an outlier there in that a lot of, I know there are people that use other, other ORMs or raw SQL with
Django, but I think it's probably a lion's share of the Django users that use the Django ORM. And I don't
think that's going away anytime soon. So I totally, a hundred percent agree with you, but what if you
decide you're probably, you want to change your project to a different web framework?
Well, I would, I would probably say the same argument is that you could probably switch to this,
this raw SQL plus data classes from Django, the Django ORM because I, there's a ton of Django stuff
out there. I'm pretty sure that the models are trained on lots of Django.
Yeah. They were pretty well trained. So this, this maintained argument is not go for everything,
but it definitely, it's definitely another angle, right?
Yeah. And also I think that you probably touched on this already, but just one less
dependency is one less thing you have to keep up on.
Yes, absolutely. It's one, one fear. And it's not usually just one dependency, right? It's like,
this thing depends on four others, which depend on three. And now there's a CVE and one of them,
you're like, ah, man. Okay. So let's, but, but there's reasons people who like these ORMs. I am a
huge fan of ORMs because they give you back classes that are great. So my proposed way of working
is create a nice data access layer, put functions in there that are very clear, like create user,
update password, whatever. And then inside, let, let it be raw queries. Let Claude write however Claude wants.
But when stuff comes out of there, it has to return some kind of class. So I proposed data classes.
Okay. And I think data classes are, are pretty interesting here for a couple of reasons. One,
they're typed, right? They look like you can tell them use slots. That's as good for memory and
performance. They're typed just like if you use Pydantic or if you use any ORM generally.
so that's really good. They're also built in. So no dependencies, as you point out, and they're
very, very lightweight, which is great. Now they have type safety in the terms of like
type checking type safety, but they don't have runtime type safety, like say Pydantic, right?
Yeah.
So if you want another very reasonable option would be to do a Pydantic plus raw data, raw queries.
I didn't use Pydantic because this means every query that comes back from the database gets
validated and there's a whole bunch of machinery that runs when, when you're reading from the
database. But if the data in the database is wrong, you're, it's already too late. It doesn't
matter if your class says it's too bad. It's like, no, it's saved. It's too bad. It's too late.
And so maybe on the outside layer, you could use Pydantic, but in the data access layer,
you could use something lighter. That was my, that's my take. when I posted this on Reddit,
people probably like 50 times, like, well, why aren't you just using Pydantic? It's like, well,
Pydantic is great. It doesn't have to be used for everything. So anyway, I'm going to follow up
with one more thing. That's pretty cool around that. But, yeah. So if you look at the performance
really quick here as well, I did a nice graph of a bunch of different things. It was like
a thousand reads look like what does a thousand writes and so on. And this graph is based on doing
just raw queries without any class component. Cause that's really the foundational,
like they all have to do that. Right. So how much overhead does each style add?
And it's not exactly perfect because, this, this raw data class style can't be faster
than writing itself in a lot of places. It's literally the same code. So it's just like
fluctuations in the machine. But if you look at say Beanie, which is based on Pydantic. So this is
more or less just Pydantic. What would Pydantic look like in this model? it's a lot of times
pretty close, but sometimes it's like five times slower. If you look at Mongo engine, which is another one,
15 times slower, 10 times slower, right? It's, it's a big difference. It's, it's quite a big difference.
So this style is actually almost native speed. There's just a few times where like the serialization
maybe doubles the time to read say a thousand or a hundred orders or something like that, but
barely. Anyway, I think it's pretty interesting. What do you think?
Yeah. I think that one of the things used, one of the reasons to go with a, an ORM was
speed of development because a lot of people don't know SQL queries that well, but their SQL queries
is a good SQL query is not that hard to, well, they can be, but generally they can be easier. They can be
decent to read, trying to figure out what, how to write it might be tricky. So that's where I think
your, your argument of around using agents and stuff to help with this, they're going to know
how to write a decent one. And you can probably, even if it's ugly, you might be able to say,
can you like clean that up? So it's easier to read. or explain it to me. Yeah.
but anyway, I think it's a valid, like it's definitely valid. I think it's more valid now than it has
been in the last couple of decades. So, yeah. Yeah. Just this morning, I was, I asked Claude
to do this thing with Beanie and I said, Oh, it would be way better if I just used a project projection
and for projections and Beanie, you have to create a subclass and use our different class and then use
that. And it's like, Oh, I could just use dictionaries. Then it crashed. Oh, I don't think
I can do that. Let me try the aggregation pipeline through Beanie. And that didn't work. I'm just like,
could you just do it directly? And it's like, Oh yeah, that works. It's just, you know,
it's, it's kind of a little bit clunky. one other thing that was really popular in the,
the conversation about this article was what Kiva Burb is asking is what about migrations,
not relevant to ODMs, but certainly relevant to ORMs. You do what everyone else does. If you write
straight SQL, you write your migrations yourself. But the thing is like, my assumption is this pattern
is most adapted to agent to coding. If you're just doing raw straight coding yourself, stick with ORMs
that'll handle it. But if you're doing a genetic, like cloud code can write a heck of a migration.
It doesn't care. It's going to be great at that.
Yeah. I guess I've just sort of leaned on migrations, a lot. And I actually don't
really know what they do under the hood.
Yeah. I mean, what are migrations? They are basically, they are a, they are a statically
generated, like pre-generated SQL script that says, add this field, change this field, change
this type, copy these things. It's a set of SQL steps for transforming the scheme of the
database. And the, typically the way migrations work is it looks at the old version of the
class and the new version of the class and goes, well, what do I got to do to write the
SQL to make one go from one to the other? You can just ask Claude to do that.
I also really liked that you're, the comment about have a data access layer, because
I think that that's a, that's a good idea, even if you are using an ORM. So.
Yeah. Thanks. All right. Well, that is plenty on that. I mean, you should definitely test your
code if you're going to take on this, this way of programming.
Yeah. Nice transition. I've been, I've been spending some time in the last week cleaning
up, spending, giving some love to pytestCheck. So pytestCheck is a, is a little plugin I wrote
a really long time ago. many, many years ago, but, but I had the last, what the
last release before recently was in November, I think. So, yeah, October, November, something
like that. so I've decided to, I decided to spend some time, getting it back up to
date. And, I did, I like the, all that, the stuff on GitHub, the, the,
activity pulse activities thing. So there's been three, three merged pull requests. Sorry
to everybody for taking so long, but it was only, I guess I only annoyed three people.
and, there is, yeah, I closed a bunch of issues, eight closed issues. Now I
did get to the point where I had only one enhancement request and, and no actual issues and no pull
requests that, you know, that doesn't, that doesn't last very long for projects that are
being used. And I hadn't checked the little, little stats thing recently.
And, it's used by almost one point or 1.3 ish thousand projects. That's, that's fun.
anyway, the, I just wanted to bring it up that that's, that's, that's a little,
it's still in the live project and, and I'm going to keep it up. I'm still
having fun with it. I still use it every day. So, that's one of the reasons the
changes there's been, there's a, there's not a lot of extra features. There was a,
uh, support for raises parameter, in the, when, when you're doing X fail, that's,
that works now, which, that's really kind of a bug fix, but it was extra feature.
Sure. So, that was a pull request. So thank you. but a lot of, some documentation
things that, and I've been noticing this at work too. If you have a new feature and you
don't document it, it's like invisible work. Why did you do that work? So, I added some
documentation to do things. but, the, a lot of it was around my PI cause a lot of
people are using my, type checkers and using PI test check. So I, so I updated a
lot of stuff, but I have a, I guess I have got a, a question or kind of an open
thing. I was going to try to make it like strict compatible, but I don't think I like it. So,
um, with strict compatible, you have to do things like, return none and make, have a lot of
extra decorations. It's a test. We always, we know that PI test tests return on that. They
have to, I think this is overkill most of the time. So, so for most of, I think it's
cleaner just to not, not show that these are supposed to be examples of how, how to use it,
how to use a tool. I think it's fine to not have a lot of that stuff. So I turned out, I did, I still
do type checking on the examples, but I'm not doing strict. So anyway, that was my, my, two cents
on, on that, I guess. I think, I think it's fine to not have a type safe or type clean
types, clean, strict type checking results on example code. I think it can be too much. I think
it has certainly a value, but there's, there's plenty of times where it's just too much. And
these type checkers can definitely get out of control. Like I had something similar with flask
or I had a flask view method and the, I had a custom decorator and the custom decorator didn't
declare its types in a way that it was identical to this really complicated, you know, app at app.get
sort of, signature. And I got these huge, crazy warnings saying this function has a mismatch on the
signature. I'm like, it's called by flask. No one calls this function. I don't care about expressing
what its signature, it works fine. Just leave it alone. You know what I mean?
Yeah. It can go way too far. The, the, there's some things that I need to also things I need to
look at, because like for an example, for a test doing something like assert one equals two
makes sense. You know, that's going to fail. That's a great example, I think, but like the,
my pipe says that that's an error. And, because what in, in constants aren't comparable. I can't
remember the error, but it's, it's weird. interesting. Yeah. It can be over that last one
or 2% is just, it's folly. So anyway, thanks to everybody. And, yeah, if you don't,
this isn't a dead project, so yeah, cool. Yeah. Yeah. It looks awesome. And, over a thousand
projects using that's pretty good. Yeah. It's, it's some of those have lots of stars. So
nice. Transitive stars are piling up. I feel it. anyway. Okay. What you got next?
What I got next is I want to talk about what something I learned through that whole discussion
around that raw plus DC design pattern that I talked about. Somebody, somebody said, look,
you are so close, but where's your validation? I'm like, you know what? I'm not really sure I need
runtime validation when I'm reading from the database, maybe writing to it maybe, but anyway,
I learned about a couple of really cool tools that you can use. So for data classes, there's this thing
called the data class wizard. Ooh, a wizard has a cool wizard hat. It's simple, elegant wizarding
tools for Python's data classes. So this is actually a super neat project here. So, and fun docs,
behold the power of data class wizard. So what you can do, there's different ways you can use it.
You can use it through what are called mix ins, which are like, they add some functionality,
you know, through inheritance, some, you know, maybe like a from Jason function, something
like that, but also, lets you specify other interesting things. Like I didn't even know you
could do this in the class definition, but basically pass configuration values to a class,
the class constructor for the type, I guess. Anyway, you can say, Hey, I have a regular
data class, but in fact, I would like it to be unconcerned with the case of the
inbound data. So if somebody doesn't say C# and they write Pascal case things, right? Like
lowercase and then uppercase second bit, or, you know, camel case type of things like we do for
classes for their fields. But I want to express them as, you know, snake case is active Tupa with
underscores and not capital A capital T sort of thing. You can just say, Oh, that doesn't matter.
And if I ever dump it out, put it back out in camel case, cause that's what the people who are
working with this API want. So this data class wizard is like a, it's like data classes,
but it has that type of functionality to it. Right.
Cool. Which is super cool because my example, I said, Oh, well, you just got to write a from
JSON function that like turns it into, they're like, why would you write that? You could use
the wizard. Like, cause I didn't know about the wizard. Tell me about this thing,
but there's other ways to use it as well. You can have just a regular data class and mix in the
JSON wizard mix in. So then you get to and from JSON, kind of like I just described. This is super cool.
You can have a, an ENV wizard. So I can then have a data class that derives from ENV wizard.
And then it reads as you just instantiated, it reads from the environment variables.
That's neat, right? Yeah.
So you just have a config file and has all these variables and you just say, guess what? Those
come out of my environment or doctor variables or whatever. And yeah, pretty neat. They've got the,
the JSON wizard, the list wizard. Cause sometimes you get a set of JSON and it starts as a list
instead of curly braces. And then it's hard to parse. So, files, Toml, Toml and YAML. You can
also get ones that'll read and write Toml and YAML data classes that basically naturally know that type.
And if you just keep going, it says you don't have to use inheritance either. You can just create
standard data classes, even hierarchical data classes like here as an A class, which has a list of B
types. And those are also data classes. And then you can just use the from dict from data class
wizard, say it's this type and here's the dictionary and then boom, it's like a little factory
method sort of thing. Oh, that's especially great if the classes come from somebody else.
Exactly. And it also does really interesting,
parsing. I can't remember where it is in their documentation, but it does, coercion or
of types. I don't know exactly how they refer to it there, but if I've got, say I have a list of integers
like Pydantic either does, or at least used to do like one. And then the quote two is the second entry
it'll, and it knows it's supposed to be an end. It'll turn that into an end and stuff. So it kind
of brings a lot of what Pydantic offers to data classes, but only when you want them.
Right. Cool. You're like in this place, I want to parse it and validate it, but not other times,
you know what I mean? Stuff like that. So anyway, I present to you the data class wizard. It's pretty cool.
Yeah. And hopefully it stays maintained. Okay. That's a good question. Let's go. Let's,
let's go to the GitHub. It says 3.14, I think tested at least. So yeah. Okay. Two months ago,
it had an update. It only has two open pull requests. So that's pretty good. It doesn't have 200.
Yeah. Anyway. Yeah. Pretty neat. I'm liking it. I haven't really had a chance to use it because
I just learned about it, but I like the idea of it a lot. Yeah. That looks fun. I have got a,
another project that is in a similar boat that I haven't, I haven't really tried it that much. I
downloaded it and installed it. And what it is, is SQLite O SQLite O SQLite O SQLite O.
SQLite O. SQLite O. SQLite O. I think it's gotta be SQLite O. That's the fun pronunciation.
SQLite O. So this is, this is a new little toy from Adam Hill. And I noticed, I can't remember,
I think I saw a social media post on it or something. Anyway, it's a macOS SQLite browser built for
normal people apparently. So, but it looks good. It looks in with the little, all the emojis, I'm
thinking, wow, I think he used maybe some agents to help build it. And that's kind of what I want to
talk about. But, but I do like, it does look good. The, the oops, error loading page. I don't know.
Yeah. I can't look at the over the overview pictures that much more, but it looks like a very
nice interface to, you know, look at your SQLite databases on Mac. So that's cool. So why am I
bringing this up? I'm bringing it up kind of because there was a caveat with installing it.
And it said, it's a, it's a, it's a, you could download the DMG and then you drag that to your
app folder or just double click it. And then you start querying, but there is, it's not verified.
So it's not through the app store. It's, it doesn't have a developer certificate yet. So why,
why am I okay with like trying this out? Well, I think it trust is a big thing. I trust Adam Hill.
I've seen a lot of his work. I've seen him comment on stuff. He works on open source projects.
And so there's some inherent trust there. If you don't know who Adam Hill is, you don't have that,
of course. But there's, there's other things I was looking at. So I was looking at the source code
a little bit and he's openly saying there's agents there. There's an eight. Well, because there's an
agents file or something talking about. Yeah. Interesting. It looks like it was built with Gemini.
Okay. Because there's not a clod.md, but there's a Gemini.md.
Yeah. And that's just pointing to the agent, his agent at MD file. And then there's,
there's like some other stuff on, like there's a directory with some to-do list ideas and stuff.
And I think, I think just being like not hiding it, I think is good. And also another thing I checked
out is the contributor because there's, I don't, so all the contributors are him. So I, I, I'm thinking
that even if like, there's a bunch of code written by agents, he's at least looking at it enough. And I,
I, I don't know. I'm still on the fence. I don't know how I feel about people giving agents control
of commits on a project or not. I'm not here for it. I'm not here for it. You're not?
No. So, but like what I would, if I would, was what, what would I be okay with? Having somebody
do this stuff and then commit themselves because you would assume that they're looking at it. But
what if you just do that on a branch? If you had, if you had the agent working on a branch committing
stuff, you could always just throw it away. And if you're happy with it, you could merge it.
I don't know how it's different.
Yeah. So I hear you. I hear you. I certainly, the branch makes it better. A feature branch,
some exploration branch. But it would still show up as a contributor in the history. So that's,
I guess that's where I'm going with that. Yeah. But by default, if you ask Claude to create a GitHub,
a get message, it'll put, or PR, it'll put co-contributor at Claude. Yeah.
Yeah. So I still, I'm not, I'm still not sure how I feel about all that, but, but I do,
there's, there's just, there's other things. So I'm thinking, I trust the developer. I trust that I
look, I look at the contributor list and I look at some of the commits. what else am I looking at?
I'm looking to make sure that there's tests, even though, I can't read a Swift test very well. I
don't know. I mean, there's at least some testing going on. so, so that, I guess that's,
that's where I'm, I'm at with, some of these things. I, and I bring this up partly because I
review a lot of projects, you know, for this, for this, podcast looking at projects. And if it
looks like there are signs like a bunch of emojis, that's not necessarily bad, but it's a sign that
somebody had agents help them with it. And actually a lot of people are really bad at writing read
me. So I'm okay with people having help writing read me. but I'm looking for tests. I'm looking
for what the contributor things I'm looking for a lot of stuff. and trusting the developers
and big things still, I think so. Yeah. A hundred percent. Well, you know, with a command book,
my app for managing like long running terminal like commands. Yeah. I had to go through the same
thing, had to get it digitally signed, both the app bundle itself is digitally signed. And then you
have to go through a separate process to sign digitally sign the DMG as well, which is an utter pain
for sure. So it is a hassle, but if you have an Apple developer account, it's not too bad. It's way
less bad than iOS and app store review and those kinds of things. It's just running it through like
a series of tools. So if Adam Hill, if you're out there listening and you want, a quick bit of
help, I'm happy to help you get over that last hunt there. Okay, cool. it doesn't say yet. So
I think he's planning on it. So I know it's just, it's brutal, but like, here's another thing. I like,
I ask, I asked Claude, I'm like, all right, Claude, you got to help me. I I'm lost here. I do not know
how to notarize this thing. It's which is what it's called. And then like, do I have to notarize
the DMG as well? And how do I pack it? And I'm like, okay, here's a big long list of steps I got
to set up. And I got like, it was pretty helpful actually. And that another thing, I guess a little
bit of a tangent, right away from the trust thing. I think this seems like a tool that Adam wanted.
And because of agents, he found time in his schedule to build it. and we wouldn't without
it, we probably wouldn't have this tool as something we can look at. now trying to get people to
stay maintaining projects that they can open source in a few hours, over the time is a different
story. But anyway, I guess enough on that. I guess I do think we're entering an entirely
different era of highly personalized software. Like I made this for me cause I could do it in an hour
and exactly it solves my problem. Maybe it's interested in you, but it's not built to be
general. It's built for me. Yeah. Yeah. There's going to be some of that, but why open source it
at that point? yeah, fair. Anyway, well, that would be extra work, wouldn't it? Yeah. Do we have
any extras? I do. Do you got any while your screen's up? Yeah, sure. I'll do. and
it's all in the same sort of topic. So, an article on, htmx.org blog, called
yes. And from Carson Gross, this says, I teach computer science at Montana university,
Montana state university, and father of three sons. And he gets the question given AI,
should I still consider being a computer programmer? Or I would translate that is into,
is a CS degree still worth it? and his response is yes. And, and I do, I,
it's a great article. enjoy reading it. the top level thing is, programming
is fundamentally problem solving using computers and learning to control complexity while solving
his problems. I would say that that's, that's computer science. but that's, and
then a bunch of other stuff. I think it's experience helps even, and, and background knowledge
helps even if you're using AI to help. then that's the same kind of a similar sentiment
over on, Simon Willison's blog, hoard the things, you know, how to do. one of
his recommendations here is, a big part of a big part of the skill building softwares,
understanding what is possible and what isn't, and having at least a rough idea of how those
things can be accomplished. And this helps with directing agents. You wouldn't ask it to do
things that, you know, is going to be a completely ridiculous. I mean, an agent might go
off and do something dumb, but if you ask it to, you just, you do have to have experience
to know what dumb is and what it possible is, I guess. So, yeah, I agree with Carson that
yes. And, I think I basically the short version is I believe Jevin's paradox is real
and that we're going to have more software rather than no software developers. And we need people to
oversee and guide and make decisions and trade-offs about that, right? It's very hard for AI to make
proper trade-offs. Like, yes, I know I could, yes, I know I could make this an app,
but my company doesn't have a culture of putting apps out. And we actually have this other backend
system. We want to, you know what I mean? There's just like all this information that it doesn't know
or like in our industry, here's how we do this. And I don't know, there's just a bunch of stuff that
humans can bring plus the ability to break it down into smaller problems and then give that to an AI.
You're way more likely to be successful than just like, Hey, guess what? I need a CRM build that.
I'll be back by lunch. Like you're going to get some form of something, but it's, again,
it's not highly personalized. It's just super generic. And if that's all you want, just go get
a CMS from like some SAS and you're done. Yeah. I think one of the really interesting things is like,
why do we build software at all? You know, there's this term software engineer, right?
How well it applies. I don't know, but a lot of times, especially in the early days of like talking
about architecture and engineering, it was all tied back to like, well, how do civil engineers do it?
And they have all these, these formalities of how they work. And maybe that should be brought into
computer engineering and programming and software engineering and so on.
And like, there's a really big difference. Civil engineers built a bridge 50 times because there
are 50 places the bridge need to be built. If you build a piece of software that solves the same
problem once, like you just run it again, you copy it and run it. You build new software because
you're solving a problem that in some way has never been solved before. So there's a difference.
There's like this, this, the part where it's never been solved before. That's where the human brings in
the stuff to the AI and the AI goes, well, there's all these Lego blocks that we already know,
like, all right, put those together. But for this, I think that's what software engineering is going to
become. Yeah. I mean, I think it has become that already. And electrical engineering has been that
way for a long time. So. Yeah. I mean, already with like packages on PyPI and things like that,
it's kind of like that, but like with AI, it's instead of, I need an auth library so I can build
a login page. It's like, I make a login page. Now click that together with it. You know, it's just
like another level up, but that doesn't mean that people necessarily go away.
I hope not. At least for another 20 years.
Yeah. Give it, give it till, till Brian and I retire then.
All right. I got some fun extras as well. Okay. So first of all, how would you like to unplug
your Python and get a bit of an MTV vibe, but it's PyTV. Yeah. It's so fun. So our friends at JetBrains
and a bunch of our friends who are speaking at this conference, but are not necessarily at JetBrains
are putting on a free online Python conference, the best Python straight to your living room.
I feel like Max Headroom should kick off the keynote, honestly, don't you?
I love Max Headroom. Yeah.
I know I did too. But there's a bunch of great people speaking here. Carol Willing, Sarah Boyce,
Marlene, Gina, Carlton, a lot of folks we know. And so, yeah, check this out. It's a free online
conference. And is it this week? When is it? Let me look. It must have a date. Surely. I know. I
think it is this week. Yeah. March 4th. So we're recording on March 2nd. That would be Wednesday.
So everybody be on top of your listening to the show or miss out. Okay. So that's one quick shout
out to that. Next is, is AI a fad and a bubble or is it an actual thing with real value that's going
to change the world? Yes. So remember we talked about the Sasspocalypse where like some of the
legal companies and other stuff where like their stock went way down because Anthropic published
13 markdown files. Well, IBM, IBM, big blue stock crashes 11% because Anthropic released some kind of
markdown file that helps convert Cobalt because Anthropic threatens the Cobalt empire. I think
there's a lot of interesting stuff here. I think Cobalt is a very interesting analogy for like pre and
post agentic written code. I can see in 20 years or like that's some pre AI code. We need some humans
that know how to type still to come in here and look at this. Right. I think there's going to be that
kind of like difference as we go on. And so I don't know, I just wanted to throw that out there. It's an
interesting read for folks. Yeah. The language stuff is, is an interesting thing with, with, with things
like Anthropic around, I am less scared of looking at code base, code bases like Swift or Cobalt. I haven't
looked at Cobalt, but, but I wouldn't be afraid now. I might be a hundred percent. Yeah. So you need
like 20% the capability you used to need to, to get something done or to get like, I don't understand
this. Explain it to me. Like, okay, now it makes sense. Whereas before it was just like, I don't
understand it. Well, especially if you're ready to test for it. So you write it like maybe there's a
bug in some Cobalt code and you say, and you write a test for it and you, and now the agent, you can
kind of trust the agent to fix it. It'll do, do good review of course, but yeah. Yeah. Okay.
A quick update. I'm absolutely in love with my 40 inch curved monitor that I told people about for
when I first got it, I was a little wigged out by how big and rappy around it is. It took some
getting used to, but this like 5k monitor that is so giant is absolutely perfect for all the type of
work we do these days. Next up update est update est not est. I tried to search for update est I S T.
No, it's E S T. So here's a really cool macOS bit of software. And what you do is you just install it
and it looks for all different kinds of apps that are out of date on your system. It looks for auto
updating apps. It looks for stuff from the app store. It looks at homebrew. It looks at CLI tools
and it manages all of them. So you go, Oh look, this thing's actually, that was been depending on
is actually out of date. Let me push the button and super cool. It's got a really nice UI. It costs,
it has money, but very little. It costs $13 once for your entire life. So anyway, it's pretty,
seems pretty fair to me. So very cool app. Also swift UI app, I believe like Adam Hills.
Wait, how do you update it though?
Oh my God. I believe it does auto update it.
If it doesn't, that would be deeply bad. I think it uses the same thing that
command book uses, which is called sparkle, which is one of the most common ways to do it. And
actually it looks at all the sparkle update feeds of all the apps installed on your system too,
which is cool. Okay. People may have heard of bartender, which is another Mac app. That's cool.
Like compresses all the little widget thingies you got at the top on the right by the clock. I love all
those things. So I go way overboard and I needed something to manage it, especially on small,
like recording screens. So I had bartender, they got bought in like a sort of underhanded way. Like
they got sold, but then nobody said they were sold for like months. It was like, they wouldn't announce
anyway, it was weird. So a lot of people moved to open source stuff. So there's a one called ice
for the Mac menu bar, but it had its last updates like six months ago and it's clearly abandoned.
So you've got ice. Well, what if it gets stuck and frozen? You got to thaw it out. So now there's a
popular one called thaw, a fork of ice, the menu bar manager. So anyway, here's a free open source
menu bar manager for Mac. That's pretty cool. Following that weird chain of events over the last
couple of years. I don't even remember what I have. I on this computer, I still have ice running
cause I haven't had a chance to update it. I just learned about this week, but it's getting thaw.
It's getting thawed out when I get done with this recording.
Getting thawed. Yeah. I have something that minimizes it, but I can't remember what it is.
Yeah. Okay. Well, shall we make a joke?
Yeah. Something funny.
I know you got kids. I have kids. Anyone out there who has kids, well, maybe roommates as well,
but especially kids like they're so messy. This joke will appreciate this is, this is like a
programmer take on, on that situation. And the title of the joke is the house is read only.
Okay. The house is read only. So here's a, a woman named Kelly on X that posted, it says,
I have cleaned the house. The house is now read only. Please do not edit the house.
Yes. Yes. Kids. I just put the dishes in the dishwasher. Why is the dish, the sink full of
dishes again? I just went up to the back to clean up the other stuff. I came back in and now it's
messy again. I can't take it anymore. The house is read only. It's so good.
I need this for my mother-in-law. Yeah. if you don't pay the mortgage, you don't get to put
holes in the walls. Just saying. Yeah. Houses read only. Please do not edit the house.
Nice. That's funny. yeah, it's a, it's been a crazy week outside of programming. So I'm trying
to concentrate on programming. Escape to the well-known world of structured text. Let's go.
Anyway, it was a fun episode. Thanks everybody for showing up and we'll see y'all next week.
Yeah. Thank you. Bye.
Bye.